---
title: "10 awesome tips about Pandas"
date: 2020-10-20
tags: [Python]
categories: [Intermediate]
header:
  images:
excerpt: "10 awesome tips about Pandas"
---

## Introduction
Pandas is probably one of the most important python libraries for Data Science, and honestly it has saved my life many times: I really love it, and I tend to use a lot it in any project I am directly involved.
This is to say that it is always present in any `requirements.txt` file I typically have to write when I set up a project.
The great thing about pandas is that it is simple and it comes with a great (documentation)[https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/], and its growing popularity within the
Data Science community has been a driving force for ever more efficient code production.

However, standard `pandas` coding practices show a few weaknesses when it comes to deal with intensive data structures,
or when one has to perform more complex operations that might burn your localhost memory. As an example, think of performing
a `for` loop in which we aim to add a new column that is the result of the application of some method on a set of selected columns.
This operation tend to be incredibly inefficient as the row dimension of the dataset gets bigger and bigger.

The aim of this post is to unveil a few advanced pandas tips that any data science developer should know to perform efficiently
more complex operations.
However, mastering pandas is not just about performances: it is much more! Hence, I would introduce you to a few tips
that possibly would make your data science a better place for other developers. So, let us dive into them.

## 1. The `.iterrows()` method

## 2. The `df.apply()` method

## 5. The `df.eval()` method

## 3. The `query()` method

## 4. The `df.lookup()` method

## 6. The `df.where()` method

## 7. The `DateOffset` and `DateRange` method

## 8. The `df.style.highlight_max(axis=0)` method

## 9. The `df.select_dtypes(include=['float64'])` method

## 10. The `df.diff()` method




## Conclusions


## Datasets:
* [Apple Stock (Jan-Sept 2020)](https://github.com/andreagiussani/datasets/blob/main/financial_returns_pandas/data/AAPL.csv)
* [Facebook Stock (Jan-Sept 2020)](https://github.com/andreagiussani/datasets/blob/main/financial_returns_pandas/data/FB.csv)
* [Google Stock (Jan-Sept 2020)](https://github.com/andreagiussani/datasets/blob/main/financial_returns_pandas/data/GOOGL.csv)
